All right.
Welcome back.
Next we're going to focus on the to do forum.
You want to be able to have an input button.
You can type something we need to do like Walk the dog feed the fish.
Hit that button and it should create a new to do item simultaneously.
It should also send a request to actually insert a new tattoo into our database.
Technically shouldn't happen simultaneously because we want to make sure that it is inserted first and
then we'll show it on the screen.
And if there's a problem we don't want to just have it show up and give the user a false positive only
to have them refresh the page and not have it be there.
So it's not quite simultaneous but it should be almost instantaneous for the user.
So let's get started.
First thing we need to do of course is to find this true form component.
Hook it up correctly get some simple input in there and then actually work on the API functionality.
So this will probably be the the most complicated video here.
But a lot of it is kind of basic bare bones things.
So let's start by going to do list and let's add an R to do form component that doesn't exist yet let's
do it underneath the H-1.
But before that to do it are displayed truly just a matter of preference.
But I'm going to do error driven development here.
So to do form it's going to cause some problems because it's not defined.
So let's write our import statement well to import to do form from dot slash to do form and also that
causes a problem because it can't find that module because it doesn't exist.
So the next step is to make that file and we'll call it to do form.
J.S. OK.
Now what I'm going to do is just copy over our import statement into to do form.
So we have re-act there and I'm going to at the bottom export defaults to do form.
Now we need to define to do for him.
So let's do that now.
It's going to be class to do form extends component and let's start super simple by just having render
and all render we'll do is return start with just a simple input.
So let's do input type equals text just like that.
And how about a button as well.
And let's have that say add to do
and we're not going to worry about functionality for now we're just going to have that most basic possible.
Oh I need to wrap them in a div or something as well.
So let's do that now.
We could also use a form
and I mean change the spacing on this file.
Drives me crazy and lets them get everything
it good enough for now.
So what are we missing here.
We have a syntax error and put because text so we need this year chess does not like that when we have
a self-closing tag we need to put that there even though it's optional in plain HMO.
OK so if this all works correctly we should have a form of top and we do.
It doesn't do anything.
When I click it or type in here.
But that's coming up next.
So the way that this is going to work similar to some of the other forms and input we've connected in
this class so far is that we're actually going to pass in if we go to our to do list component when
we create the form here.
We're going to pass in a function as a prop that inside the form when we click this button it will trigger
that function and pass in the value of the input.
So whatever is currently typed in there like I don't know a clean fish tank when we click the button
there will be an on click here that will take that value.
But really that value is going to be coming from the state of art form.
So the only thing to do form state is the current input values.
So we can actually start there.
So let's go down here and start off by adding Excuse me down here.
Start off by adding just our basic constructor
and do our super props boiler plate and let's define state
and let's call it input value will be an empty string to start.
And now let's go down to this input and hook that up so that we have value equals this state that input
value.
And I'm actually going to do this on separate lines just for formatting purposes.
There we go.
So the value of this form or the input.
Let's change this instead of and put value being an empty string that say hello ha ha ha.
Something like that.
Now if I were fresh you can see our initial value there is EHLO ha ha ha.
Now the thing is if I change this let's go to our reactive tools and go to to do form and put value
in the state is Helliwell ha ha.
But if I change here it actually doesn't allow me to edit this at all.
I'm trying to.
But we're not actually updating the state and the state is linked to the value of this form.
So it doesn't allow us to update it because we're not changing the state.
So let's fix that first because we're going to need this form to be able to change of course we need
to take that date value of input value and then send that off to the to do list component to send to
the API.
And then hopefully get a good response back so it updates the DOM here with a new to do.
So back here we're going to start with L-L haha that's fine.
We're not just going to bind the value though.
We're also going to add an event here on change and we don't have any sort of function defined yet or
method but let's call it handle change.
We need this handled change and now we need to define Andal change.
So let's go ahead and define that up here.
And it takes an event object and let's just start by setting the state
to update input value and set it equal to whatever the target value is.
So in that event no semicolon there we're going to extract the value of that input and update the state
the input value part of our state to reflect that change.
So now the last thing we need to do is actually bind this.
So this handle change equals the start and all changed up bind this hopefully that's reviewed by now.
Put that in the constructor and we go over here.
We won't see anything but if we go to the re-act tools and look at our state let's change this to.
Hello.
And you can see that it's updating the state.
So that's our first step.
All that really allows us to do is have our reac component know what's happening in this input kind
of manage the input here as well as be able to extract that value at any point and pass it on.
Which is what we need to do next.
So we want to add our on click to our button.
So this button when we click on it we want something to happen.
We're not going to actually write the logic for the API call in here because remember our state is managed
by this list or the to do state at least.
But we're going to trigger a function.
So let's start by defining something called handle submit and here and handle submit can be super simple
for now it's just going to cancel that log.
This state DOT input value and then down here are going to on our button add simple on click equals
this state and will submit.
And then lastly appear are you in a bind.
So will do this that handle submit equals this debt handle submit that bind this.
OK.
So at this point we're telling this button when you're clicked on let's do it like this.
It's really just a matter of personal taste.
But when this button is clicked we're going to call this up handle submit and had to submit just print
it out.
This does state that input value.
Oh I'm calling this state that Hendel submit doesn't make sense.
It's not in the state.
We're trying to call our function and will submit.
OK.
Now let's give it a shot.
I click it starts out as well haha I update it.
OK.
So we're basically now able to take that value and all that we want to do is when we click on that button
rather than just printing it out we're going to call a function that's going to be passed in through
prompts.
So let's actually hop over to our to do list and define a simple function.
It won't do the API call just yet.
Let's go down after load to do's and just write one called had to do and we'll take in a value from
our input.
You could call it whatever you know text or new to do text or something I'll just call it now and let's
do a simple conference call log again here just to say adding to do from to do list component and then
let's add in Vau.
So all that we're really doing is shifting the responsibility the constant log up to the to do list
component.
So we define ad to do now what we need to do first is binded up here.
So when our constructor again will do this that add to do equals.
And do not find this.
OK.
Then we need to pass it in when we actually render our to do form.
So I'll do that now.
We'll just call it add to do equals this dot add to do so we're passing in this under.
Add to do in the props.
So then inside our form inside of the handle submit we'll now have access to this props that add to
do.
And we want to pass in this state input value.
So whatever is currently in that input we're going to extract it out because it's in this state that
input value take that value and then we're going to send it on along to this stop prop's that Ed to
do which again is being passed in right here from the parent and all that it does is come to about log.
So it's not a big improvement but we're setting the structures that we can at our API call in here because
we need this to happen in the to do it component.
That's where the state is managed.
So let's see what happens.
There we go.
It is adding to do from to do this component.
It's working.
Okay.
So now for the fun part.
When I delete this now we need to make our API call.
So going back to the slides here the route that we need to send our data to the Create route we need
to send a post request to slash API slash traduce.
And then we need to of course include as Jason in the body of the request the name of that to do whether
it's walk dog or feed cat we need to include that data.
So whatever's in that input which for us is just going to be called Vau.
OK.
So this will take a bit to type.
I'm actually just going to copy our existing fetch an update at just a slight little tiny change.
So rather than just fetching API you RL As is I'm actually going to need to add in some options and
the first one is going to be method is now post the default method for Fetch is get.
So let's change it to post and the other thing we're going to need to do.
Let's add headers make a new headers object and we're just going to say Content-Type
is application slash Jaison.
Right.
And then after that we need to include the data.
So remember we're trying to send the value so we can't just send the value on its own because the way
our API works it's expecting it to be under the key name.
Each to do has a name and it completed it completed and a created date.
And so we're just going to include it under name.
So we're going to do body Jason dot string of phi name colon though so we're just building a trace on
string and sending that along in the body.
And we can actually start with that and we're not doing anything afterwards which is fine we're just
returning the parsed version of the response.
We're not updating the state so we won't actually see any changes on the page but if we look in our
network tab Let's send a new one.
Let's do that and I'm really running out of ideas here.
Let's go oh grocery shopping and click add to do.
You can see here I think I clicked it twice but you can see that our response request is sent to slash
API slash dues as a.
And if we scroll down and see our body here name is go grocery shopping.
Perfect.
And then we actually get a response which is the newly created to do.
So we have to do is take that data and update the to do's in our state object to reflect this new to
do.
So to do that down here we just add in our then format that and let's just call it let's call it new
to do
and then it's pretty simple.
You just need to do a set.
State and to.
We want all the existing to use.
So this that state to use plus the new to do that just came back.
So that's going to be this data just lost it.
But if we send off another one let's do do laundry.
You can see it here.
This is what's coming back and we're just adding that to the state.
So if we look at the state now in our to do us component of our most recent one we're simply just adding
it in at the end.
By the way.
Okay.
So that's pretty much it for creating it to do.
Honestly the bulk of the code is reduced reused just the error handling for our fetch.
What's different is that post request rather than a get request and we're passing in some data as well.
But then afterwards error handling same.
And then we're just updating the state and to use to reflect the new to do as well as the existing to
use in the state and react to takes care of the rest and adds in a new item for us.
Okay.